.TH TINES_HNB 7 "26 Jan 2016"
.SH NAME
tines_hnb \- hnb/Tines outliner format
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The default file format for \fIhnb\fP is a simple XML document type.
The Tines outliner supports it as a legacy format,
but future versions will use OPML as the default.
.LP
The top-level element is <tree>, which contains one or more <node> elements.
<node> elements in turn can contain <data> and other <node> elements.
.LP
Each <node> element can have three optional attributes:
.IP \[bu] 4
.I type
is a text string describing the node type.
.I hnb
supports only the "todo" type.
Tines supports both "todo" and "text" types.
.IP \[bu] 4
.I done
is a text string that can take the values
.B yes
or
.BR no .
It is used in conjunction with
.BR type= \[dq]todo\[dq]
to indicate whether the to-do entry is checked or not.
.IP \[bu] 4
.I expanded
.RI ( lhnb
extension, adopted by Tines):
A text string that can take the values
.B yes
or
.BR no .
It is used to indicate the saved expansion state of nodes with children.
.IP \[bu] 4
Users can use the
.B att_set
command to set custom attributes and values.
Tines preserves these when reading and writing hnb files.
.LP
The DTD is embedded in each hnb file.
.RS
.nf

<!DOCTYPE tree[
<!ELEMENT tree (node*)>
<!ELEMENT data (#PCDATA)> <!-- (max 4096 bytes long) -->
<!ELEMENT node (data?,node*)>
<!ATTLIST node done (yes|no) #IMPLIED
          type CDATA #IMPLIED
          expanded (yes|no) #IMPLIED
>]>
.fi
.RE
.LP
In addition, the processing instruction <?hnb pos="\fIn\fP" ?>
stores which entry was selected when the file was last closed.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tines (1),
.BR tines_opml (1),
.BR hnb (1)
.
.SH AUTHOR
The original \fIhnb\fP was written by
\[/O]yvind Kol\[:a]s (pippin@users.sourceforge.net).
.LP
\fItines\fP is now maintained by Larry Kollar, who also wrote this manpage.
